README.md, before:


# App Local [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dbtedman/app-local.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dbtedman/app-local)

Provides a repeatable local development environment that matches an app server infrastructure, associated databases and services.

* [Contributors](#contributors)
* [License](#license)
* [Dependencies](#dependencies)
* [Getting Started](#getting-started)
* [Testing](#testing)
* [Services](#services)
* [Mapped Ports](#mapped-ports)

## Contributors

* [Daniel Tedman](http://danieltedman.com)

## License

Open Source, released under the [MIT License](http://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/), see [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) for details.

## Dependencies

* [Virtual Box (v5.1)](https://www.virtualbox.org/)
* [Vagrant (v1.8)](https://www.vagrantup.com)
* [Vagrant Librarian Puppet (v0.9)](https://github.com/mhahn/vagrant-librarian-puppet)
* [Vagrant Puppet Install (v4.1)](https://github.com/petems/vagrant-puppet-install)
* Internet Access

*The following are only required when modifying this repository.*

* [Puppet Lint (v1.1)](http://puppet-lint.com/)
* [EditorConfig](http://editorconfig.org/#download) (optional)

## Getting Started

0\. From now on `$REPO` will refer to the path to this repository as it is checked out on your machine, e.g. `/Users/danieltedman/Workspace/app-local`.

1\. Ensure all [Dependencies](#dependencies) have been resolved.

2\. Define a `$REPO/yaml/developer.yaml` configuration file to customise Puppet and Vagrant configuration based on the example provided `$REPO/yaml/developer.example.yaml`.

3\. Download [Oracle InstantClient RPMs](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/linuxx86-64soft-092277.html) **basic**, **devel** and **sqlplus** into `$REPO/app_modules/app_local/files`. The names of these files will need to be added to the `$REPO/heria/developer.yaml` config file for `oracle_instantclient_basic`, `oracle_instantclient_development` and `oracle_instantclient_sqlplus`.

4\. Start and provision VM:

```bash
cd $REPO

vagrant up --provision
```

See [Vagrant CLI](https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/cli) for documentation on to interact with the vm.

5\. View an index of deployed applications, [https://localhost:8443](https://localhost:8443).

> When mapping new projects into the vm or updating the configuration of existing ones, you will need to run the `vagrant reload --provision` command to apply these changes.

## Testing

See [https://travis-ci.org/dbtedman/app-local](https://travis-ci.org/dbtedman/app-local) for CI results, run on each commit.

### Static Analysis

Check for formatting issues and automatically resolve them where possible.

```bash
cd $REPO

puppet-lint app_modules/ --fix
```

## Services

To `start`/`stop`/`restart`/`status` services, use the following commands:

| Service | Command |
|:---|:---|
| Apache | `sudo service httpd status` |
| MySQL | `sudo service mysql status` |


## Mapped Ports

| Port | Purpose |
|:---|:---|
| `8443` | HTTPS website, [https://localhost:8443](https://localhost:8443). |
| `3306` | Workstation access to MySQL database. |

Commit message:

Initial Oracle XE Database support.

README.md, after:


# App Local [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dbtedman/app-local.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dbtedman/app-local)

Provides a repeatable local development environment that matches an app server infrastructure, associated databases and services.

## Contributors

* [Daniel Tedman](http://danieltedman.com)

## License

Open Source, released under the [MIT License](http://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/), see [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) for details.

## Dependencies

* [Virtual Box (v5.1)](https://www.virtualbox.org/)
* [Vagrant (v1.8)](https://www.vagrantup.com)
* [Vagrant Librarian Puppet (v0.9)](https://github.com/mhahn/vagrant-librarian-puppet)
* [Vagrant Puppet Install (v4.1)](https://github.com/petems/vagrant-puppet-install)
* Internet Access

*The following are only required when modifying this repository.*

* [Puppet Lint (v1.1)](http://puppet-lint.com/)
* [EditorConfig](http://editorconfig.org/#download) (optional)

## Getting Started

0\. From now on `$REPO` will refer to the path to this repository as it is checked out on your machine, e.g. `/Users/danieltedman/Workspace/app-local`.

1\. Ensure all [Dependencies](#dependencies) have been resolved.

2\. Define a `$REPO/yaml/developer.yaml` configuration file to customise Puppet and Vagrant configuration based on the example provided `$REPO/yaml/developer.example.yaml`.

3\. Download [Oracle InstantClient RPMs](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/linuxx86-64soft-092277.html) **basic**, **devel** and **sqlplus** into `$REPO/app_modules/app_local/files`. The names of these files will need to be added to the `$REPO/heria/developer.yaml` config file for `oracle_instantclient_basic`, `oracle_instantclient_development` and `oracle_instantclient_sqlplus` properties.

4\. Download [Oracle XE Zip](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/database-technologies/express-edition/downloads/index.html) into `$REPO/app_modules/app_local/files`. The name of this file will need to be added to the `$REPO/heria/developer.yaml` config file for the `oracle_xe` property.

5\. Start and provision VM:

```bash
cd $REPO

vagrant up --provision
```

See [Vagrant CLI](https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/cli) for documentation on to interact with the vm.

6\. View an index of deployed applications, [https://localhost:8443](https://localhost:8443).

> When mapping new projects into the vm or updating the configuration of existing ones, you will need to run the `vagrant reload --provision` command to apply these changes.

## Testing

See [https://travis-ci.org/dbtedman/app-local](https://travis-ci.org/dbtedman/app-local) for CI results, run on each commit.

### Static Analysis

Check for formatting issues and automatically resolve them where possible.

```bash
cd $REPO

puppet-lint app_modules/ --fix
```

## Services

To `start`/`stop`/`restart`/`status` services, use the following commands:

| Service | Command |
|:---|:---|
| Apache | `sudo service httpd status` |
| MySQL | `sudo service mysql status` |
| Oracle XE | ` ` |


## Mapped Ports

| Port | Purpose |
|:---|:---|
| `8443` | HTTPS website, [https://localhost:8443](https://localhost:8443). |
| `3306` | Workstation access to MySQL database. |
| `8888` | Oracle XE configuration website. |
| `1521` | Workstation access to Oracle XE database. |
